examples/standalone-on-aws-ec2/README.md, before:

# Example Terraform HCL file for AWS EC2

- 1.Download the [MongoDB Terraform Provider](https://github.com/mongodb-labs/terraform-provider-mongodb)

- 2.Install it (copy it to `~/.terraform.d/plugins`)

- 3.Prepare the required AWS dependencies:

    - A. a *security group* which should allow the following inbound traffic:
        - external access to the Ops Manager port
        - external access to the SSH port
        - access to the MongoDB port from within the same security group 
    
        Example:
        
        | Type | Protocol | Port Range | Source | Description |
        | ---- | -------- | ---------- | ------ | ----------- |
        | Custom TCP Rule | TCP | 9080 | 0.0.0.0/0 | Ops Manager |
        | SSH | TCP | 22 | 0.0.0.0/0 | SSH |
        | Custom TCP Rule | TCP | 27017 | sg-... | This security group |

  - B. a *subnet* which automatically assigns an IPv4 address and allows inbound/outbound traffic.

- 4.Export the required variables
    - security_group_id
    - subnet_id

```bash
export TF_VAR_security_group_id=...
export TF_VAR_subnet_id=...
```

- 5.Run terraform

```
cd examples/standalone-on-aws-ec2 # this directory
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

### Connecting to the host

If you need to connect to the host, you will need to retrieve the SSH key which was generated by terraform.

Run the following command: `TF_LOG=ERROR terraform output ssh_private_key > ~/.ssh/terraform-private.pem`

You can then SSH to your instance with `ssh -i ~/.ssh/terraform-private.pem user@host`.

Commit message:

Install and configure automation agents (#5)
* Working Automation Agent install
* Working terraform examples for Docker (Ubuntu 18.04) and AWS EC2 (RHEL 7.6)
* Ability to build the plugin for all three major platforms
* Dockerized builds (avoid having to install the go toolchain)
* Updated the feature set in README.md

examples/standalone-on-aws-ec2/README.md, after:

# Example Terraform HCL file for AWS EC2

- 1.Check out the latest available [MongoDB Terraform Provider](https://github.com/mongodb-labs/terraform-provider-mongodb/releases) 
  and then [build the provider plugin](https://github.com/mongodb-labs/terraform-provider-mongodb#setting-up-the-development-environment).

- 2.Install it
  ```bash
  make install # will copy it to `~/.terraform.d/plugins`
  ```

- 3.Prepare the required AWS dependencies:

    - A. a *security group* which should allow the following inbound traffic:
        - external access to the Ops Manager port
        - external access to the SSH port
        - access to the MongoDB port from within the same security group 
    
        Example:
        
        | Type | Protocol | Port Range | Source | Description |
        | ---- | -------- | ---------- | ------ | ----------- |
        | Custom TCP Rule | TCP | 9080 | 0.0.0.0/0 | Ops Manager |
        | SSH | TCP | 22 | 0.0.0.0/0 | SSH |
        | Custom TCP Rule | TCP | 27017 | sg-... | This security group |

  - B. a *subnet* which automatically assigns an IPv4 address and allows inbound/outbound traffic.

- 4.Export the required variables
    - security_group_id
    - subnet_id

```bash
export TF_VAR_security_group_id=...
export TF_VAR_subnet_id=...
```

- 5.Run terraform

```
cd examples/standalone-on-aws-ec2 # this directory
make apply # which in turn will run terraform init, plan, and apply

# if you want to clean a previously existing plan, run:
make clean
```

### Connecting to the host

If you need to connect to the host, you will need to retrieve the SSH key which was generated by terraform
and load it into your SSH Agent: `ssh-add $(make private-key)`

Alternatively, you could simply pass the file to SSH `ssh -i $(make private-key) user@host`.
